---
ID: 552
post_title: ""
author: ac
post_date: 2016-05-16 21:20:45
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://mindinganimals4.umich.mx/web/es/3_1_carol-adams/
published: true
---
[English below]

<b>Carol J. Adams</b><span style="font-weight: 400"> ofrecerá la segunda conferencia en memoria de Marti Kheel (la primera se realizó en Nueva Delhi, en 2015).  Carol es una defensora feminista-vegana, activista, académica independiente y autora de numerosos libros, incluyendo </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Sexual Politics of Meat: A Feminist-Vegetarian Critical Theory</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">, ahora en una edición de Bloomsbury Revelations celebrando su aniversario número 25. Se ha traducido a varios idiomas, entre los más recientes están turco y portugués; las ediciones en francés y castellano saldrán en 2016. También es autora de libros sobre el modo de vida vegano, incluyendo su libro </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Never Too Late to Go Vegan: The Over-50 Guide to Adopting and Thriving on a Vegan Diet</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (con Patti Breitman y Virginia Messina), y </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Living Among Meat Eaters: The Vegetarian’s Survival Guide</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">. Es co-editora de varias importantes antologías, incluyendo </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Animals and Women</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (con Josephine Donovan (1995) y </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Feminist Care Tradition in Animal Ethics</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (2007), y con Lori Gruen </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Ecofeminism: Feminist Intersections with Other Animals and the Earth</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (2014).  Sus escritos son tema de dos antologías recientes, </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Defiant Daughters: 21 Women of Art, Activism, Animals, and The Sexual Politics of Meat</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> y </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Art of the Animal: 14 Women Artists Explore The Sexual Politics of Meat</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">, en donde una nueva generación de feministas, artistas y activistas responden al trabajo vanguardista de Carol Adams.  En este otoño también saldrá a la luz </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Carol J. Adams Reader: Essays and Conversations: 1995-2015</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">.  Ver: </span><a href="http://www.caroljadams.com"><span style="font-weight: 400">www.caroljadams.com</span></a>

<b>Carol J. Adams</b> <span style="font-weight: 400">will present the 2018 (second) Marti Kheel Memorial Lecture.  Carol is a feminist-vegan advocate, activist, and independent scholar and the author of numerous books including </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Sexual Politics of Meat: A Feminist-Vegetarian Critical Theory</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">, now in a Bloomsbury Revelations edition celebrating its 25th anniversary.  It has been translated into several languages, most recently Turkish and Portuguese; French and Spanish editions will appear in 2016.  She is also the author of books on living as a vegan, including </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Never Too Late to Go Vegan: The Over-50 Guide to Adopting and Thriving on a Vegan Diet</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (with Patti Breitman and Virginia Messina), and </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Living Among Meat Eaters: The Vegetarian’s Survival Guide</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">. She is the co-editor of several important anthologies, including </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Animals and Women</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (with Josephine Donovan (1995) and </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Feminist Care Tradition in Animal Ethics</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (2007), and with Lori Gruen </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Ecofeminism: Feminist Intersections with Other Animals and the Earth</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (2014).  Her writings are the subject of two recent anthologies, </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Defiant Daughters: 21 Women of Art, Activism, Animals, and The Sexual Politics of Meat</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> and </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Art of the Animal: 14 Women Artists Explore The Sexual Politics of Meat</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">, in which a new generation of feminists, artists, and activists respond to Adams' groundbreaking work.  This fall, </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">The Carol J. Adams Reader: Essays and Conversations: 1995-2015</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> will also be published.  See: </span><a href="http://www.caroljadams.com"><span style="font-weight: 400">www.caroljadams.com</span></a>