---
ID: 416
post_title: 'Minding Animals International, Organization and Trianual  Congress'
author: ac
post_date: 2016-05-16 21:13:30
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://mindinganimals4.umich.mx/web/en/mai-2/
published: true
---
<span style="font-weight: 400">Minding Animals International Incorporated (MAI)* provides an avenue for the transdisciplinary field of Animal Studies in all its guises (Human Animal Studies, Anthrozoology, Critical Animal Studies and so on) to be more responsive to the protection of animals.  It is recognised that animal protection in this context encapsulates environmentalism, animal liberation, animal rights, wildlife protection, animal welfare and animal law and justice, veterinarian and zoological sciences (in no particular order of importance).</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400">MAI aims to enable discourse between the various interests (from the arts, literature, feminist studies, queer studies, law and public policy, to the humanities and cultural studies) within this rapidly developing transdisciplinary field in ways that will improve the status of non-human animals and alleviate nonhuman animal exploitation.  As such, MAI facilitates research in Animal Studies.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400">MAI acts as a bridge between academia and advocacy and is a network of more than 3,000 academics, artists and advocates, dedicated to the study and protection of all planetary life through the advancement of Animal Studies as a genuine and developing academic field.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400">MAI is organised by a Board of nine Directors, and has several functioning Advisory Committees.  Minding Animals also has several groups operating in various parts of the globe, including Australia, Southern Africa, China, the USA, India and across Europe, including but not limited to Germany, Denmark, Norway, Italy, the UK, France and the Netherlands.  MAI is also an incorporated body in the US State of Delaware and is exempt under the US Federal Income Tax under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.</span>

<b>What do we do?</b>
<ul>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">Co-produce tri-annual international Minding Animal Conferences with selected partners</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">Co-organise Summer Schools</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">Sponsor national and regional events to achieve our objectives</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">Partner with like-minded organisations to promote their conferences</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">Manage an international network of affiliated and mutually supportive national groups</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">Maintain a website and publish a regular electronic bulletin</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">Produce a Minding Animals Journal – a journal dedicated to animal studies</span></li>
</ul>
<b>Minding Animals Conferences</b>

Minding Animals Conferences are held every three year to advance the objectives of the organisation and, most importantly, to continue to expand the transdisciplinary field of Animal Studies.  The first conference was held in Newcastle, Australia, the second in Utrecht, the Netherlands, and the third in New Delhi, India.

<b>Conference and Organisational Objectives</b>
<ul>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">To reassess the relationship between the animal and environmental movements in light of climate change and other jointly-held threats and concerns;</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">To examine how humans identify and represent nonhuman animals in art, literature, music, science, and in the media and on film;</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">How, throughout history, the objectification of nonhuman animals and nature in science and society, religion and philosophy, has led to the abuse of nonhuman animals and how this has since been interpreted and evaluated;</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">To examine how the lives of humans and companion and domesticated nonhuman animals are intertwined, and how science, human and veterinary medicine utilise these important connections;</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">How the study of animals and society can better inform both the scientific study of animals and community activism and advocacy; and</span></li>
 	<li style="font-weight: 400"><span style="font-weight: 400">How science and community activism and advocacy can inform the academic study of nonhuman animals and society.</span></li>
</ul>
<span style="font-weight: 400">Dr Rod Bennison</span>
<span style="font-weight: 400">Chairperson MAI Inc.</span>
<span style="font-weight: 400">mindinganimals@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-weight: 400">mindinganimals.com</span>
<ul>
 	<li>The names Minding Animals, Minding Animals International, MA, MAI, the organisational logos and all content on the Minding Animals Website and Bulletin is © 2016 Minding Animals International Incorporated.</li>
</ul>