---
ID: 212
post_title: Mindind Animals Meaning
author: ac
post_date: 2016-05-16 20:33:09
post_excerpt: >
  How to understand the meaning of Minding
  Animals in some native languages?
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://mindinganimals4.umich.mx/web/en/212-2/
published: true
---
According to Marc Bekoff ((6/07/2012, Minding Animals 2, Utrecht, NL), <strong>Minding Animals</strong> means:
<ol>
 	<li>Taking care of other animals and providing a life that is safe and peaceful...</li>
 	<li>Attributing minds to them: We know they are clever and have deep and rich emotional lives and care very much about what happens to them; we know they are conscious and feel pain; these facts are, or should be, givens when we interact with them; that's why most, if not all of us, are here and care...</li>
</ol>
Unlike the millenary use of “animal” in Spanish, English, French… in central-south native american languages there is not a word that clearly distinguishes the human “species” as such from the rest of the animals.

<span style="font-weight: 400;">Here we present some interpretative approaches to<strong> Minding Animals</strong>, understanding that we are forcing the idea that animals are a different kind. Come back soon, we will post videos, so you can see and hear it: </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">Maya k´iche´: Awajib' ri kechajin kech nik'aj chi Awajib' the almost literal translation would be “animals taking care of other animals”. Information provided by Beatriz Par Sapón, </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">native speaker</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">. </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">Mixteco: kiti ku'u io cha chini tuni. “Thinking animals or animals that think”. Information provided by Hermenegildo López Castro, </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">native speaker</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">. </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">Náhuatl: In yolcamej quicuitlahuia occe yolcamej. "The animals take care of other animals". Proposal by Noé Zapoteco, náhuatl speaker from Guerrero. </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">Náhuatl, consulted with Fabiola Carrillo, náhuatl speaker from Tlaxcala:  </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">Yolcayoll: “skilled and witty animals”. </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">Yolcanemilianimeh: “Animals who think, animals who are thinking”.  Moyolcacuitlahuianimeh. “Animals who take care of each other”. </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">Research, analysis and consultation with native speakers by Mayra Gabriela Álvarez, master degree in Mesoamerican studies. México, 29/11/2015. Thanks to Itzia Vieyra for the translation to English and to Gerardo Tristan, náhuatl, CEO and founder of FaunaAccion for his comments on it. </span>

&nbsp;